Next, we'll import the GraphX libraries,
import the Vertices, import the Edges,
create a Graph, and use Spark's filter
method to return Vertices in the graph.
Hi, this is Cristine Kirkpatrick,
division director for
Information Technology Systems and
Services at
the San Diego Super Computer Center.
I'll guide you through
the hands-on exercises.
I recommend you follow
along with the video once.
Then, either using the video or
the hands-on reading, go through the
hands-on exercise on your own computer.
This hands-on exercise will show you
how to build a graph using GraphX,
Spark's API for graphs, and
graph-parallel computation.
We'll start with importing the data and
then build a simple graph.
Note that the first four hands on
assignments are meant to be completed
sequentially.
That is, you will need to have your
Cloudera VM running continuously.
If you must shut down your VM and
restart, you will need to run the commands
from this first hands on assignment again.
Otherwise you may receive error messages
because the data has not been imported.
The data references metro areas.
In an effort to disambiguate or
distinguish between metropolitan areas and
an English word also used
to refer to a train or
light rail, when we mean metro
area we will say metropolis.
First, ensure your
cloudera vm is started and
that you've downloaded the data set,
examples of analytics.
The link is in the content for this week.
The download process might name
the zip file something very long.
Copy the examples of analytics.zip
file to the cloudera's home folder.
If the zip file is on the desktop,
simply drag it to the Cloudera's
home folder on the desktop.
If the file is saved elsewhere,
then you will need to navigate
to the folder where it is saved before
dragging it to the Cloudera's home folder.
Open the terminal window by clicking the
terminal icon at the top of the screen.
Use the unzip command to extract the zip
file to the cloudera home directory.
You can copy and
paste the name of the zip file.
Let it extract with the default name,
ExamplesOfAnalytics.
Go into the ExamplesOfAnalytics
directory and
list the contents of
the EOA data directory.
You should see five .csv files and
one .txt file.
In order to access the CSV and TXT files,
we have to first copy the files to HDFS.
Rally HDFS foot command to copy
the EOA data directory to HDFS
then less the contents of
the EOA data directory on HDFS.
Start the spark shell and include the
graph stream and breeze fizz libraries.
Don't worry about copying
the full command from the video.
A text version will be included within
the course reading that contains the full
command for you to copy and paste.
Import the log for j classes and
suppress the notice in info messages.
Import sparks graphx and
rdd classes along with scala source class.
The data set we are going to use in
this hands on is from three files.
The metro.csv file and the country.csv
file contain the vertices for
the graph and
metro underscore country.csv.
contains the edges that make up the
relationships between the metro areas and
the country they belong too.
Before importing any of the CSV files, we
are going to list the first five lines of
each file to verify that
they are indeed CSV files.
Notice that the metric.csv contains an ID,
the metropolis name and the population.
The country.csv file contains
only an ID and the country name.
The metro_country.csv file
contains the metro ID and
the ID of the country that
the metropolis belongs to.
Create a class called PlaceNode to store
the information about the vertices.
Then extend the PlaceNode class
with case classes specifically for
the metro's and the countries vertices.
Create attributes for
the metro class to store the name and
the population from the CSV file.
The country class only needs
an attribute to store the name.
To import the metro.csv file, create
a spark resilient distributive data set or
rdd named metros made up of
a vertex id in the metro class.
An rdd represents an immutable
partition collection
of elements that can be
operated on in parallel.
When the contents of
the .csv files printed,
the line with the column names
started with the symbol #.
So create a filter to ignore any
line that starts with a # so
that the column names
don't import into the RDD.
The .csv files being imported
contain values separated by commas.
So you will need to split each line
in the metro.csv file into rows,
by using a comma as a delimiter.
Map the first row to the vertex ID.
The second row is the metro
name attribute, and
the third row is the population attribute.
You're going to import the country's .csv
feed file the same way as the metro.csv
feed file.
However this time since the ids in both
the metro.csv file and the country.csv
file start with one you will add 100
to the vertex id of the countries.
So that the vertex ids are unique
between both data sets.
If the ids are not unique
that will prevent us from
creating an accurate graph.
This will be on the quiz.
Import the edges into
an RDD named mclinks.
This is done the same way as
the previous two examples.
Remember to add 100 to
the countries vertex ID.
Concatenate the metros and countries
vertices into a single variable and
use GraphX's graph function to
create a graph of the metros and
countries vertices with
the MC links edges.
Let us take a look at
what is in the graph.
Use the vertices and edges attributes
to print five vertices and
five edges from the metros graph.
Query the graph to find
how the metropolises and
the countries are related.
Let us find which country Tokyo is in.
Tokyo has a vertex ID of 1.
Use RDD's filter method to filter
all of the edges in metro's graph
that have a source for text ID of one and
create a map of destination vertex ID's.
The result is 101 which is Japan.
You can verify this by looking at
the metro.csv and country.csv files.
Remember, we added 100 to
the IDs in country.csv.
Now, let us do the opposite and
find all of the metropolises that are in
China which has a vertex ID of 103.
This time we're going to filter
all of the edges in metro's graph
that have a vertex ID of 103 and
create a map of all of the source IDs.
The result is 3,4, 7, 24, and 34.
You can look in metrostats.csv and verify
that those metropolises are in China.